simpletools: Handy command-line tools for the manipulation of ROOT ntuples
(c) Conor Fitzpatrick 2007-2009

Please read README.pdf for detailled documentation

If you find these tools useful either in whole or in part, please cite the documentation:

simpletools: Handy command line tools for ntuple manipulation and analysis
LHCb Internal Note 2009-029
Conor Fitzpatrick, University of Edinburgh


Bug reports, feature requests, comments and patches are always welcome.
conor.fitzpatrick@cern.ch

changelog:
v1.0h - stacker, stackergen now require an additional argument to be present in the filelist: preprocessing cuts in standard cut format. For ntuples you don't want to apply a preproc. cut to, just put "1" in there instead of something more complex like "pt>100". 
	stackergen: Variables read from the ttrees are now checked to make sure they have a non-zero RMS. If all trees have a zero rms, they aren't really worth plotting, so the var. line is output with a preceeding '#' meaning stacker ignores it. 
	crop: Added a patch submitted by Gareth Rogers that fixes creation of the temporary preprocessing files: Instead of creating files in /tmp as was default, it looks to the $TMPDIR variable to define its temporary directory. 

v1.0g - added a tool "kstest.cc" to compute the Kolmogorov p-value matrices of datasets passed to stacker. Uses the same filelist and varlist as stacker

v1.0f - added a check to ensure the specified ntuple exists in cutapplier. Thanks to Ruggero Turra for spotting this.

v1.0e - added ability to disable gui for batchmode/headless operation. Add '-b' as the last argument to crop

v1.0d - crop: added a plot of the evolution of S/sqrt(S+B) as a function of the number of cut reoptimisations, 
	as requested by Ulrich Kerzel. 

v1.0c - crop: added updating gui to show the S/sqrt(S+B), RoC, signal eff and background rejection of the last optimised cut.
	these plots are now written as a single canvas to the output file. 

v1.0b - added verbose error messages to parsing code of crop and stacker: 
	Misconfigured config files now tell you where they are misconfigured instead of just segfaulting.  
	Thanks to Gareth Rogers for this suggestion. 

v1.0a - initial public release
